# Environment Variables

The following setting can be configured by using Docker environment variables.

## Jenkins HTTPS

This container can create ad-hoc self-signed certificates for https without any reverse proxy. This
gives some out of the box network security. Note that reverse proxies and proper certificate work flows are always
to be prefered! I will use this until the Google Cloud Engine https load balancer will work.

At startup the container will create a unique self-signed certificate. This certificat will live as long as the docker volume. You have to pass Distinguished Name (DN) and a keystore password. The certificate is generated by a Distinguished Name and secured by the keystore password. This is a DN-Example:

~~~~
CN=SBleul,OU=Blacklabelops,O=blacklabelops.net,L=Munich,S=Bavaria,C=DE
~~~~

  * CN = Your name
  * OU = Your organizational unit.
  * O = Organisation name.
  * L = Location, e.g. town name.
  * S = State
  * C = Locale of your county.

Now start your container with additional parameters for starting jenkins with https and a keystore password.

~~~~
$ docker run --name jenkins \
	-e "JENKINS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD=swordfish" \
	-e "JENKINS_CERTIFICATE_DNAME=CN=SBleul,OU=Blacklabelops,O=blacklabelops.net,L=Munich,S=Bavaria,C=DE" \
	-p 443:8080 \
	blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

> Congratulations! You can now access your jenkins instance with simply typing https://youinstance.com! Accept the certificate inside your browser and have fun!

## Jenkins Security

This container support matrix enabled user security and admin account at startup. Jenkins
will be locked up and only allows the defined admin user. Afterwards users and rights
can be configured as usual. The admin password can be changed any time. I use this for starting
the container up inside cloud environments.

~~~~
$ docker run -d --name jenkins \
	-e "JENKINS_ADMIN_USER=jenkins" \
	-e "JENKINS_ADMIN_PASSWORD=swordfish"  \
	-p 8090:8080 \
	blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

## Jenkins Installing Plugins

Finally got this working:

You can define a set of plugins that will be installed, if necessary, during initialization. Very good
for testing out new plugins. Also adding default plugins like swarm. You have to define a list
of plugin-ids seperated by a whitespace.

~~~~
$ docker run --name jenkins \
  -e "JENKINS_PLUGINS=gitlab-plugin hipchat swarm" \
  -p 8090:8080 \
  blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

> This will install the plugins gitlab-plugin hipchat swarm once during post-inistialization.

## Jenkins Master Number of Executors

Jenkins jobs should be executed on slaves therefore it's good to be able to limit
the executors on the master.

~~~~
$ docker run --name jenkins \
  -e "JENKINS_MASTER_EXECUTORS=0" \
  -p 8090:8080 \
  blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

## Jenkins Administrator Address

Setting the Administrators EMail Address. Has the form:
"Administrator Name <mail@example.com>"

~~~~
$ docker run --name jenkins \
  -e "JENKINS_ADMIN_EMAIL=Blacklabelops <blacklabelops@itbleul.de>" \
  -p 8090:8080 \
  blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

## Jenkins Mail SMTP

The following parameters enable the servers mail settings.

Minimum example:

~~~~
$ docker run --name jenkins \
  -e "SMTP_USER_NAME=jenkins" \
  -e "SMTP_USER_PASS=swordfish" \
  -e "SMTP_HOST=smtp.mailservice.com" \
  -e "SMTP_PORT=2525" \
  -p 8090:8080 \
  -p 50000:50000 \
  blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

Full example:

~~~~
$ docker run --name jenkins \
  -e "SMTP_USER_NAME=jenkins" \
  -e "SMTP_USER_PASS=swordfish" \
  -e "SMTP_HOST=smtp.mailservice.com" \
  -e "SMTP_PORT=2525" \
  -e "SMTP_REPLYTO_ADDRESS=dummy@example.com" \
  -e "SMTP_USE_SSL=true" \
  -e "SMTP_CHARSET=UTF-8" \
  -p 8090:8080 \
  -p 50000:50000 \
  blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

## Jenkins Slave Port

The slave port enables the automatic connection of jenkins slaves. The port can be configured as follows.

~~~~
$ docker run --name jenkins \
  -e "JENKINS_SLAVEPORT=50000" \
  -p 8090:8080 \
  -p 50000:50000 \
  blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

> Slaves can connect on port 50000.

## Jenkins Command Line Parameters

You can define command line parameters. The list of parameters can be found [here](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Starting+and+Accessing+Jenkins).

~~~~
docker run -d --name jenkins \
	-e "JENKINS_PARAMETERS=--httpPort=8090" \
	-p 8090:8090 \
	blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

> Starts Jenkins with internal port 8090 rather default port 8080.

## Java-VM Parameters

You can define start up parameters for the Java Virtual Machine, e.g. setting the memory size.

~~~~
docker run -d --name jenkins \
	-e "JAVA_VM_PARAMETERS=-Xmx512m -Xms256m" \
	-p 8090:8080 \
	blacklabelops/jenkins
~~~~

> You will have to use Java 8 parameters.
